Participate - Support the network Update (#548)
iota-community/iota-wiki: internal/participate/support-the-network/about-nodes.md

## Network synchronization

Like any distributed system, nodes in an IOTA network synchronize their databases with their neighboring nodes to form a single source of truth. When one node, no matter where it is in the world, receives a transaction, it will try to gossip it to all its neighbors. This way, all nodes eventually see all transactions and store them in their local databases.

To synchronize, nodes in IOTA networks use milestones. If a node has the history of transactions that a milestone references in its database, that milestone is solid. Therefore, nodes know if they are synchronized if the index of their latest solid milestone is the same as the index of the latest milestone that it has received. When a node is synchronized, it then has enough information to decide which transactions it considers confirmed.

## Transaction confirmation

> All transactions remain in a pending state until the node is sure of its validity. However, even when a transaction is valid, nodes may not immediately be able to confirm a transaction due to conflicts, like in the case of a double spend. When nodes detect conflicting transactions, they must decide which transaction to consider confirmed. Nodes do this by using consensus rules that are built into their node software. See [here](/learn/about-iota/an-introduction-to-iota#consensus-in-the-tangle) for more information about the consensus rules in IOTA networks.

Reviewer: The official Wiki guidelines suggest to embed links into a word if possible: https://wiki.iota.org/participate/contribute-to-wiki/for_tws/formatting#links

```suggestion
All transactions remain in a pending state until the node is sure of its validity. However, even when a transaction is valid, nodes may not immediately be able to confirm a transaction due to conflicts, like in the case of a double spend. When nodes detect conflicting transactions, they must decide which transaction to consider confirmed. Nodes do this by using [consensus rules](/learn/about-iota/an-introduction-to-iota#consensus-in-the-tangle) that are built into their node software.
```

Author: Thanks, absolutely an improvement!

## Network synchronization

Like any distributed system, nodes in an IOTA network synchronize their databases with other nodes (neighbors) to form a single source of truth. When one node, no matter where it is in the world, receives a transaction, it will try to gossip it to all its neighbors. This way, all nodes eventually see all transactions and store them in their local databases.

To synchronize, nodes in IOTA networks use milestones. If a node has the history of transactions that a milestone references in his database, that milestone is solid. Therefore, nodes know if they are synchronized if the index of their latest solid milestone is the same as the index of the latest milestone that it has received. When a node is synchronized, it then has enough information to decide which transactions it considers confirmed.

## Transaction confirmation

> All transactions remain in a pending state until the node is sure of its validity. However, even when a transaction is valid, nodes may not be able to make a decision like in the case of a double spend. When nodes detect double spends, they must decide which transaction to consider confirmed and which one to ignore. Nodes do this by using consensus rules that are built into their node software. See [here](/learn/about-iota/an-introduction-to-iota#consensus-in-the-tangle) for more information about the consensus rules in IOTA networks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All transactions remain in a pending state until the node is sure of its validity. However, even when a transaction is valid, nodes may not immediately be able to confirm a transaction due to conflicts, like in the case of a double spend. When nodes detect conflicting transactions, they must decide which transaction to consider confirmed. Nodes do this by using consensus rules that are built into their node software. See [here](/learn/about-iota/an-introduction-to-iota#consensus-in-the-tangle) for more information about the consensus rules in IOTA networks.
```

Just emphasizing that not being able to decide is temporary. Also removed the part about transactions being ignored, because with weak referencing this is no longer the case.

## Balances on addresses

> All nodes keep a record of the balances of addresses, so they can do the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All nodes keep a record of the balances of addresses, so they can respond to client requests for their balance and verify that transactions do not transfer more IOTA tokens than are available on the address. Nodes update their record of balances when a transaction is confirmed.
```

Just a suggestion to replace this line and the list below.

- Respond to client requests for their balance
- Verify that transactions do not transfer more IOTA tokens than are available on the address
- Nodes update their record of balances when a transaction is confirmed

> ## Exposing APIs for clients

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Exposing APIs for Clients
```
